Samsung : 
1. Merge k sorted linked-list
2. Search in rotated sorted array
3. Design LRU system  
4. write a program to create circular queue?  
5. Web Development: Difference between RESTful & SOAP (include security point)?  
6. Operating System: Interprocess Communication and its types.  
7. Database: What is Foreign keys? they will ask related case scenarios  
Design and Development of REST API.
Scaling large scale websites.
Complex MySql Queries etc.  
What are the differences between Java and C++. Describe Java's garbage collection. A bunch of questions about threads  
threading and memory management.
A search question which uses recursion 
Several rounds with various topics like coding, algorithms, logic, ML, statistics.  
Problem was to create an array from one input array where every element in output array is the next biggest element from that element.  

complexity of the program.
Given a graph, find out if it can be colored using 2 colors. Different colors for alternate nodes (3 hours) people who passed all 10 test cases were shortlisted.
Note- You can compile your code as many number of times as you want, but a maximum of 5 submissions were allowed to test on the given test cases.

10. OOPS-
Critical Section, Mutex , Semaphores, Paging, Techniques to swap out pages (Least recently used, least frequently used).
9. Asked to write my own typedef operator- I used function template to write a generic function.
8. Asked if I knew Dijkstra’s Algorithm, I said yes, asked if I could write the pseudo code- I wrote it fast, Asked to explain why Dijkstra’s algo fails when -ve weights are there in the graph.
6. A few codes on pointers, asked me the outputs.
e.g. const pointers and pointers to const.
4. Wrote a few codes on run-time polymorphism and asked me to write the outputs.
e.g. virtual destructor, inheritance with virtual keyword.
5. Asked me what pure virtual classes are?
They asked about data structures too. Implementation of Sorting algorithm with their complexity explained.
coding question was a graph question 
Coding round on Hackerank.
One was to output the decimal number after inverting the binary representation of input number. Second was to find maximum sum sub-array of input array. Third was on BST.
In the snake and ladder game, compute the minimum number of dice throws to complete the game. I was only asked to give rough idea of the solution.  
Print sum of all prime numbers within a given range.
Given a BST, find k-th largest element without using extra space.  
Given a BST, find k-th largest element without using extra space.  
 linked lists,stacks.
 How to find a loop In linked list how to reverse a linked list  
 mostly asked about c/c++ ,data structure and algorithms. asked about pointer ,heap ,stack ,sorting .
 - Difference between CPU/GPU?
- How do Linux interrupts work?
- Reason to compile Linux driver as a module or statically into the kernel?  
Asked the C#.net related topics (delegates,events, task,thread,singleton, interface,abstract,exception,abstraction/encasulation)
Round 2- Some DS related stuff - BST, find the top 10 items in BST.  
1. Difference between abstract class and interface.
2. some design related question(I don't remember that)
3. What kind of exception hierarchy you would prefer to create for your application. Explain in detail.  
1) reverse a string,
give different approaches for the same.
2) Some reasoning questions
3) How to find the middle node of a linked list
4) find the intersection point of two linked lists  
It starts with an online written test which contains a problem based on bfs/dfs/searching algorithm which you are require to complete within 2 hours. After cracking this round 3 technical rounds were there followed by one HR round. Technical rounds mostly deal with algorithms and data structures. Graph and Tree traversals. Some optimization problems and one design discussion.

Explain the projects mentioned in the resume with architecture diagrams.  
