1. Why container ? use case ?

Before 20s we were having servers - big servers,  for cooling also we need lots of money and resource . Space , 
how much would be the size of resource ? 
One app run on one server .



then ,

VMWare - they have hypervisor virtualisation technology , we have one server and multiple apps can run on it .

One server - multiple apps , divide in four server , have its own CPU, hard disk etc 


Hyperviser achitc:

container achitc: 

Containerization is increasingly popular because containers are:

Flexible: Even the most complex applications can be containerized.
Lightweight: Containers leverage and share the host kernel.
Interchangeable: You can deploy updates and upgrades on-the-fly.
Portable: You can build locally, deploy to the cloud, and run anywhere.
Scalable: You can increase and automatically distribute container replicas.
Stackable: You can stack services vertically and on-the-fly.

A container is launched by running an image. An image is an executable package that includes everything needed to run an application--the code, a runtime, libraries, environment variables, and configuration files.

A container is a runtime instance of an image--what the image becomes in memory when executed (that is, an image with state, or a user process). You can see a list of your running containers with the command, docker ps, just as you would in Linux.

A container runs natively on Linux and shares the kernel of the host machine with other containers. It runs a discrete process, taking no more memory than any other executable, making it lightweight.

By contrast, a virtual machine (VM) runs a full-blown “guest” operating system with virtual access to host resources through a hypervisor. In general, VMs provide an environment with more resources than most applications need.

These portable images are defined by something called a Dockerfile

Operating system (OS) virtualization has grown in popularity over the last decade to enable software to run predictably and well when moved from one server environment to another. But containers provide a way to run these isolated systems on a single server or host OS.

 

Containers sit on top of a physical server and its host OS—for example, Linux or Windows. Each container shares the host OS kernel and, usually, the binaries and libraries, too. Shared components are read-only. Containers are thus exceptionally “light”—they are only megabytes in size and take just seconds to start, versus gigabytes and minutes for a VM.

 

Containers also reduce management overhead. Because they share a common operating system, only a single operating system needs care and feeding for bug fixes, patches, and so on. This concept is similar to what we experience with hypervisor hosts: fewer management points but slightly higher fault domain. In short, containers are lighter weight and more portable than VMs. 


Docker 
Docker-compose 
    to create a file : touch filename
    to see the content : cat
Docker-file : Steps to create docker image , it is like wrting sll the steps to make dishes .

Docker-Architecture -
1. docker -client and server (daemon)
The daemon receive the command from docker client thw CLI or API .
Daemon and client can be present at the same server or different location.

Docker images : it is a template to create docker container .
container is the running intsnace of image .
Images can be stored at local storage or registory (docker hub ).

DockerFile :

It is the text file with automations to build image 
Automation of Docker image creation.

Docker swarn : 
It is the set of machines which is running docker and join in the cluster .

Docker machine - provision docker host/engine
Docker swarm : schedule  containers over multiple docker engines  
Docker compose : compose multiple docker compose .

A collection of docker engines to create a cluster is called swarm .


Docker inside :

Namespace: Process ID, Network (net), file system / mount , inter proc
Control group :which controls the memory , CPU uses .

Dockerfile :

FROM : base image from which the container is build  
RUN : commands that needs to be executed on the image
CMD . : it specifies the entry in docker file
-p flag : hostport: containerport

Concept of service : 

1. POD has lable which service is going to target and exposes a pod for external world .




