for search algo : 
1. web crawler : know the document existance
2. inverted index : index the document for lookup
3. scoring  : know the relevant the document is 
4. search

First up, it is distributed. It runs on multiple nodes within a cluster and can scale to thousands of nodes, which means that the performance of your search operations can scale linearly with the number of nodes that you add to the cluster, an important consideration as your data grows in size. Elasticsearch is also highly available and fault tolerant because multiple copies of your data are stored within the cluster. Every index is replicated. Elasticsearch has a very simple and easy-to-understand REST API which you can use to perform operations such as creating, retrieving, updating, and deleting indices and their corresponding documents. Administrative and searching analysis operations--all of these can be performed with simple REST calls by passing in data in JSON format. Elasticsearch offers a very powerful query DSL or domain specific language, which allows you to express very complex queries in a very simple manner using JSON. Elasticsearch is also schema-less. All the documents that you index need not follow a specific schema, and no data types and corresponding field names need to be set up before indexing and parsing the documents. Elasticsearch is developed by a company named Elastic. They renamed themselves from Elasticsearch to Elastic in May 2015. And here is their website at www. elastic. co. Clicking on the Products link on the top left will show you the products that are developed along with Elasticsearch. You can see the range of products that they have on the top row. First up is, of course, Elasticsearch, the search and analysis engine. Kibana is a data visualization tool which allows you to visualize and navigate your data within Elasticsearch. Beats is a data shipper or an agent which sends data from thousands of machines to Elasticsearch or Logstash. Logstash is a data processing pipeline, which can analyze data from multiple sources. X-Pack is a monitoring and reporting tool. And, finally, Cloud refers to Elasticsearch and Kibana available as a service on AWS. For this class, we're interested only in Elasticsearch. So scroll down, click on the Learn More link next to Elasticsearch to see what it's all about. You'll get to a page which acts as the starting point for your Elasticsearch journey. Here you can see that Elasticsearch can be used to query, as well as analyze data, and a whole bunch of other resources to help you with your learning journey. What's really cool about Elasticsearch, though, is the number of languages which you can use in order to make API calls. Search and analysis queries can be done by a simple HTTP request using cURL. You can choose to use Java, C#, Python, JavaScript, PHP, Perl, or Ruby. So whatever language it is that you're comfortable working in, Elasticsearch allows you to integrate with its API in that language. In this particular course, though, we'll be using cURL, simple HTTP requests that we do from the command line in order to retrieve our results.
