URL : 
Split vs splice - https://medium.com/@jeanpan/javascript-splice-slice-split-745b1c1c05d2
https://lucybain.com/blog/2015/js-split-vs-splice/
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37601282/javascript-array-splice-vs-slice

virtual DOM vs DOM - 
https://hackernoon.com/virtual-dom-in-reactjs-43a3fdb1d130

new feature in CSS3 and HTML5  ?
Local storage vs session storage ? 

this.setstate vs this.state ; 
export module in javascript:
how to do single property update in react js : 
how to do row update in react js ?
controlled vs uncontrolled ?
pure function ? 
pure component ?
significance of second parameter in setstate ? 
react clone vs create ? 
document getelementbyid child node vs document get element by parent 
css in react ?
inline css react ?
media query ?
Design an e-commerce system, where data comes from various retailers and client should be able to compare Prices of products  ?
Find missing number in Array   ?
Find a string is Palindrome  ?
Coding challenge - Ticket Service   ?
Print number 1 to 10 with a delay of 1 second. (Use a closure)   ?
Reverse a linked list recursively and non recursively ?
Find the loop in a linked list.  ? 
Demonstrate basic filter/map/reduce type transformations given an example string.  >?
Handling multiple requests  ?
Variable Hoisting, Box Model   ?
Write a debounce function ?
What is semmetric html ?
An array of json object was given and was told to get the values from array and store in the table. I tried my best to explain using pseudo code ?
Design a webpage in which there is a menu and when we hover cursor on that menu a submenu appears. ?
When to chose React and when to chose Angular ? 
HOC in React ?
How does virtual DOM in react works ?
Join two sorted arrays to form another sorted array ?
Polyfill for Array.map ?
Prototypal Inheritance ?
What is Media Tag in html ?
Difference between == and === ? 
How do you design a login/ signup page? asked to draw a design in paper? 
How do you right align a form in a page? 
JS code to reverse a string ?
typeof typeof 5 ?
Write logic for Fibonacci series?
What are the possible methods to align a block vertically and horizontally center? 
Difference between call, apply, bind ?
In JavaScript you can define a variable in two ways: "x = 10" and "var x = 10". What's the difference between them? 
  Srcset in images ?
  Are you familiar with HTML5 APIs?
  Demonstrate the passing data from parent to child component and child to parent component through code. (It was mentioned to ignore syntax since it was on paper). ?
  Vertically and horizontally align an item using only css? 
  Box model and Box sizing ?
  . Ways of creating objects in JS ?
  How does the bootstrap grid work? 
   CSS specificity rules ?
   What happens once you enter url into browser?
    null == undefined; //true or false? 2. null === undefined; //true or false?
    traversing tree or graph, debounce, throttle, building a tile game, build AutoCompleteSuggestor component, event loop, inheritance etc
    Kanpsack problems
    Given with a JSON file. And asked to design UI. No mocks or redlines are given. Design your interested UI. ?
    Race condition in javascript
In how many ways, we can include font in our web page?
How can you make a webpage SEO friendly?
What is the difference between Inline CSS and On Page CSS?
Find the maximum number in an array ?
What is Media Quaries?
What is the Use of Doctype html ?
Write a polyfill for a promise ?
Different storage types on browser ?
How to make a div center horizontally and also vertically using CSS?
How to find length of array and merge two arrays in javascript.
What is javascript typecasting? What is use strict in javascript?
Questions related to IIFE
Difference between rem and em
how to make react bidirectional ?
Difference between undefined and not defined
What are the various ways of performance optimization of a react application?
I was asked mostly about the AJAX calls and how do we make cross-domain AJAX calls, concept of JSONP , asked about GET/POST calls and timeout in AJAX. Questions on how to make a custom carousel and lazy load plugin in jquery. I was given a paper and pen to write the code for the same.
Program to implement closure?
New in ES6 ?
Explain the difference between $ajax and xml http request. Also when should we use these kind of http services. ?
deferred function
difference between HTML5 and HTML 4
how the browser renders the page.
Differentiate between Observables and Promises.
Heap sort
Implement search bar functionality
can we create custom event in javascript if yes thenhow?
Do you have idea about data-tags in html5?
Code for spiral traversal of m*n matrix
How can we create routing without any framework with pure Javascript
Javascript setTimeout questions
How we will implement breadcrumb using a component.
default position property in css
what are differences in between __proto__ vs Prototype.
How you will pass data from one site to another. Say from abc.com to xyz.com.
Create a function Given Input sum(1)(2)(3)(4)(); Desired Output 10
Questions on Flex box, Display inline-block, Difference between relative & absolute. New features in Bootstrap 4. List all methods used with transform.
How to track user action in single page app. Design.
write a function similar to debounce
HTML different tags in html Primitive vs non primitive tags Why need to have different tag names? What is doctype What happens if we dont use it? JavaScript Currying and closures Using this in js Let var const React lifecycle Need for redux? How redux works Type in action dispatching Flattening an array Sum(1)(2)(3)() Event delegation Y Combining reducers Call Apply bind Why redux? When do u use refs vs state? How to update state React Virtual dom and dom diffing Using encapsulation What is SPA how is it different from multipage and its uses Css Increment width and height 3 times without using width and height Flexbox Postion properties Centering without margin top0 rlb 0 React Hoc and renderprops
What is the purpose of the z-index and how is it used?
What is the difference between slice, substr, substring?
Please write test cases and the complexity of each code. Maximum time allowed is 30 minutes. Q1. Print all prime numbers between two given numbers. For example: Function is Prime(beg,end), for Prime(4,7) it will return {5,7}, for Prime(7,16) it will return {7,11,13} Feel free to code in any language of your choice 
Difference between document.ready and window.load.
event bubbling, closure, marquee, span tag, SVG, DOM, few outputs of code snippets, reverse a string, mid element of doubly linked list, quick sort vs merge sort. CSS : Questions on float, padding, margin, border, visibility. They will confuse you a lot . So basics should be clear about all the CSS property. ?
what is spread operator ?
What is polymorphic? 
technical round question:- diff b/w bom and dom diff b/w .detach and .romve method what is $.holdready() what is chaining what is isNaN JavaScript Data type diff b/w primitive and non primitive data type diff b/w body.onl0ad and document. ready ?
Create a payment application to send and receive money  
If you have 7 identical tiles and a common balance, 6 of which are of equal weight. How do you find the odd one out with minimum number of iterations.
For the given array, find the continuous sub array with maximum sum  
Minimum time to cross a bridge by 4 persons who take 1,2,7,10 min respectively. Only two people can cross at a time and one torch has to be there
Given an array of api's, make api calls synchronously one after another each. Once all completed, execute a callback. Similar to Promise.all but just that all promises has to be resolved synchronously.
if i gave you two medicine and if you will take more than two tablets of both you will die and by mistake you put 5 in to water and you can not waste the water and now what will you do?
Create a tile game : A random tile is highlighted and if you click it, the score is incremented by 1, if you click anywhere outside, score is decreased by 1, and if you don't click, the score remains the same.
implement sorting for comma seperatd values in string array
implement queue using stack
How WebPack detect the dead code that can help in Treeshaking ?
"What is event loop , diff between call stack and task queue ?
join two table ?
Difference between calling a normal function and with new keyword?
Difference between remove and detach function of jquery?
Design stack using linked list ?
What is event binding?
3. Factory vs Service 4. Digest Cycle. 
How do you stop event from propagating upward
Is JavaScript multi-threaded or single-threaded? How to achieve multi-threading in JavaScript? 
Array contains 0s,1s,2s. give unique array. 2.Summation of array
I was asked to implement a pub sub and a Promise. I was supposed to know bit operations in DS/algo.
Given series of numbers in array, find missing number. ?
Internal working of call() (JS) function. What exactly happens when call() is called with object.
When would you use css float and clear?
Design a triangle using html and css ?
tic-tac-toe implementation using core JavaScript , HTML5 and CSS3
Find the all permutation on string and return true if any of them is palindrom, Opening and closing bracket sequence
http and https ?
How to remove a text box out of 5 boxes arranged in loop (Parent Box to Child box) with the help of Javascript? 
output of setTimeOut inside for loop.
3 settimeout and console output
What is the lifecycle of a widget? 
How do you fetch keys from a dynamic object?
Sort an array without using any inbuilt methods?
How will you approach if you were asked to design and develop a railway booking application like IRCTC
deep equal of object  ?
Javscript whats is output of this statement. console.log()? type question eg. console.log('1'+2+5), console.log(+true) ?
What is Canvas?
Difference between opacity, visibility , display none
How cookies management works?
Write a program to remove duplicates from an array.
Deep and Shallow copy ?
Closures, Hoisting, 2 way data binding, Fibonacci series, Difference between display: none and visibility: hidden  ?
SetTimeout, SetInterval
when to use redux over react ?
What are the disadvantages of using closures?  
What are memory leaks in JS?  
 How to implement protected routes in React? What are HOCs and render props? Example s for the same  
 Implement inheritance in JS?  
 Difference between classical and prototypical inheritance?  
 Implement polyfill for .bind function in JS  
 Function declaration and function expression difference? What is hoisting?  
 
Nvm - how to use it and how to go back to old version of node 
webpack configuration - task manager , lint
query selector in css
how to share a session between different domain
docker  - how to go inside the container
mongodb- one to many relationship
grapgql drawback
jwt token - copy the token from one browser session and put it on another browser.
react 16 new iteams
react hooks callback and userefs

26th Aug : 
1
// informatica - 
Algo - 
1. from 1 to 100 , find the missing number 
2. find the middle element of linklist
3. remove the duplicate from array object 
4. remove the duplicate from nested array of object.
CSS - 
1. specificity in css, css file
2. Psedo element
3. 
design
1. load balancing
2. real-time data update on client
3. if there is a change in js or cs file , how client will get the change.
4. 
- You have a third party API implemented in your project, how  can you provide a behaviour which is not present in the 3P API to all implemented classes without changing the 3P API

0
▼
I think Decorator is the pattern to be used here. We can have a Decorator interface who is maintaining the reference of the 3 rd party component object and defines an interface who conforms to the 3rd Party API provided component interface.

Then concrete decorators, who have implemented a Decorator interface, can extend the functionality either by adding a new state or a new behavior. 
This is useful when we want to dynamically assign new behavior or responsibilities to a class instead of subclassing it.

